docs: new tutorial "create asyncapi documents" (#1023)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/create-asyncapi-document.md

---
title: Create AsyncAPI document
description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how to create an AsyncAPI document.
weight: 80
---

## Introduction

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to create an AsyncAPI document based on a sample real-world use case. Additionally, you will learn about event-driven architecture, message brokers, pub/sub pattern.

Let's pretend you have a company called Smarty Lighting, and you install smart-city streetlight lighting systems. This smart lighting system is a use case of the Internet of things (IoT).You will create a Smartylighting Streetlights API using Node.js and Mosquitto (MQTT) as the message broker. This API will allow you to manage city lights remotely. 

You want to build a system that can turn streetlights on and off based on their environmental conditions: 

> - You will implement an event-driven architecture (EDA) with a message broker in its "center."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You will implement an event-driven architecture (EDA) with a message broker in its "center".
```

Reviewer 2: nope, that one is incorrect @akshatnema 😜

- Streetlights will publish information about their environmental lighting to the broker.

- Your application will connect to the broker and receive a stream of events from all the streetlights reporting their conditions.

- Your application decides based on events when to turn the streetlight off.

- Your application is not aware of how many streetlights are publishing events - it just connects to the broker and receives all events.

## Background context

Event-driven architecture (EDA) is a design pattern built around the production, detection, and reaction to events that take place in time. In this pattern, a message broker, event publishers and subscribers are its main components for event exchange within microservices.

> [Message brokers](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#message-broker) enables asynchronous communications between services so that the sending service need not wait for the receiving service’s reply. This allows interdependent services to “talk” with one another directly, even if they were written in different languages or implemented on different platforms. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Message brokers](/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#message-broker) enables asynchronous communications between services so that the sending service need not wait for the receiving service’s reply. This allows interdependent services to “talk” with one another directly, even if they were written in different languages or implemented on different platforms. 
```

The PR deploy URL link won't be part of links in the production.

> Futhermore, the [Pub/sub](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) is appealing for IoT use cases due to two key features: support for flexible coupling between publishers/subscribers and inherent support for point-to-multipoint transmission.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Futhermore, the [Pub/sub](/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) is appealing for IoT use cases due to two key features: support for flexible coupling between publishers/subscribers and inherent support for point-to-multipoint transmission.  
```

Futhermore, the [Pub/sub](/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) is appealing for IoT use cases due to two key features: support for flexible coupling between publishers/subscribers and inherent support for point-to-multipoint transmission.  

[MQTT](https://mqtt.org/), is a well-known protocol that is widely used in IoT applications because it was created particularly to address machine-to-machine (M2M) communication.

## Create AsyncAPI document

In this step, you will create an AsyncAPI document to describe the Streelights API. It will help you generate the code and the documentation later on.

To create one, you can either use the [AsyncAPI Studio](https://studio.asyncapi.com) or the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli), depending on your project need.

<Remember>

You can create a new `asyncapi.yaml` document by running: 
`asyncapi new --example=tutorial.yml --no-tty`.

</Remember>

Go ahead to create the specification documents titled `asyncapi` with a `.yaml` extension.

<CodeBlock>

> {`asyncapi: '2.5.0'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{`asyncapi: '2.6.0'
```

We need to have the latest version of AsyncAPI in Docs.

info:
  title: Streetlights API
  version: '1.0.0'
  description: |
    The Smartylighting Streetlights API allows you
    to remotely manage the city lights.
  license:
    name: Apache 2.0
    url: 'https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0'
servers:
  mosquitto:
    url: mqtt://test.mosquitto.org
    protocol: mqtt
channels:
  light/measured:
    publish:
      summary: Inform about environmental lighting conditions for a particular streetlight.
      operationId: onLightMeasured
      message:
        name: LightMeasured
        payload:
          type: object
          properties:
            id:
              type: integer
              minimum: 0
              description: Id of the streetlight.
            lumens:
              type: integer
              minimum: 0
              description: Light intensity measured in lumens.
            sentAt:
              type: string
              format: date-time
              description: Date and time when the message was sent.`}
</CodeBlock>

Let's break it down into pieces:

<CodeBlock>

> {`asyncapi: '2.5.0'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{`asyncapi: '2.6.0'
```

same here...

          lumens:
            type: integer
            minimum: 0
            description: Light intensity measured in lumens.
          sentAt:
            type: string
            format: date-time
            description: Date and time when the message was sent.`}
</CodeBlock>

The `payload` property defines the content of the event using AsyncAPI schemas. It means that your event payload should contain an `id` and a `lumens` property —which are integers bigger than zero—, and a `sentAt` property that should be a string containing a date and time.

>  JSON Schema Draft 07 is 100% compatible with AsyncAPI schemas. You can also use other standards to describe payload schema, like, for example [Avro](https://github.com/asyncapi/avro-schema-parser#usage).

## Summary

In this tutorial, you learned how to create an AsyncAPI specification document via a real-life example with an IoT use case.

This tutorial is only a bootstrap; you'll need to add your own business logic into it. Take some time to play with it. There are still lots of things to be covered, but the intent of this tutorial is to make it simple for you to get an idea of the potential.

## Next steps

> Now that you've completed this tutorial, go ahead to learn how to [validate your AsyncAPI document with Studio](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tutorials/studio-document-validation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you've completed this tutorial, go ahead to learn how to [validate your AsyncAPI document with Studio](/docs/tutorials/studio-document-validation).
```

Also, I think @alequetzalli, you have to make a special dedicated PR to align the `Next Steps` of each page in Docs, after merging all the Doc pages of gsod :sweat_smile:. I'm very much confused about the sequence in which pages will be connected, but hope so, it is very much clear to you at the end :smile:.

Reviewer 2: they are all ready, i already fixed them :P :)

Reviewer 3: I don't think you pushed changed

Reviewer 3: I mean pushed changed related to the link `https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tutorials/studio-document-validation`

Futhermore, the [Pub/sub](/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) is appealing for IoT use cases due to two key features: support for flexible coupling between publishers/subscribers and inherent support for point-to-multipoint transmission.  

[MQTT](https://mqtt.org/), is a well-known protocol that is widely used in IoT applications because it was created particularly to address machine-to-machine (M2M) communication.

## Create AsyncAPI document

In this step, you will create an AsyncAPI document to describe the Streelights API. It will help you generate the code and the documentation later on.

To create one, you can either use the [AsyncAPI Studio](https://studio.asyncapi.com) or the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli), depending on your project need.

<Remember>

> If you do not have an `asyncapi.yaml` file ready, then generate one by running: 
> `asyncapi new --example=tutorial.yml --no-tty`.
> 
> Next, generate a server by running:
> 
>     asyncapi generate fromTemplate asyncapi.yaml @asyncapi/nodejs-template -o output -p server=mosquitto
>     cd output && npm install

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also generate `asyncapi.yaml` document by running: 
`asyncapi new --example=tutorial.yml --no-tty`.
```

it could not be copied 1:1
this tutorial is about creating asyncapi document, no generation should be mentioned

@alequetzalli this is only thing that needs to be adjusted and we can accept

[Message brokers](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#message-broker) enables asynchronous communications between services so that the sending service need not wait for the receiving service’s reply. This allows interdependent services to “talk” with one another directly, even if they were written in different languages or implemented on different platforms. 

Futhermore, the [Pub/sub](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) is appealing for IoT use cases due to two key features: support for flexible coupling between publishers/subscribers and inherent support for point-to-multipoint transmission.  

[MQTT](https://mqtt.org/), is a well-known protocol that is widely used in IoT applications because it was created particularly to address machine-to-machine (M2M) communication.

## Create AsyncAPI document

In this step, you will create an AsyncAPI document to describe the Streelights API. It will help you generate the code and the documentation later on.

> To create one, you can either use the [AsyncAPI studio](https://studio.asyncapi.com) or the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli) depending on your project need.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create one, you can either use the [AsyncAPI Studio](https://studio.asyncapi.com) or the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli), depending on your project need.
```

Next is the `payload` property which is used to understand how the event should look like when publishing to that channel:

<CodeBlock>
{`      payload:
        type: object
        properties:
          id:
            type: integer
            minimum: 0
            description: Id of the streetlight.
          lumens:
            type: integer
            minimum: 0
            description: Light intensity measured in lumens.
          sentAt:
            type: string
            format: date-time
            description: Date and time when the message was sent.`}
</CodeBlock>

The `payload` property defines the content of the event using AsyncAPI schemas. It means that your event payload should contain an `id` and a `lumens` property —which are integers bigger than zero—, and a `sentAt` property that should be a string containing a date and time.

>  JSON Schema Draft 07 is 100% compatible with AsyncAPI schemas. You can also use other standards to describe payload schema, like, for example [Avro](https://github.com/asyncapi/avro-schema-parser#usage).

## Summary

> In this tutorial, you've learned how to create an AsyncAPI specification document in a real-life example i.e IoT use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to create an AsyncAPI specification document via a real-life example with an IoT use case.
```

This tutorial is only a bootstrap; you'll need to add your own business logic into it. Take some time to play with it. There are still lots of things to be covered, but the intent of this tutorial is to make it simple for you to get an idea of the potential.

## Next steps

> Now that you've completed this tutorial, go ahead to learn how to [generate code]() from the specification document using the AsyncAPI generator tool.

Reviewer 2: @Annysah yo, what's with this dangling url? `[generate code]()` 

Please fix this line 😄

Author: @alequetzalli  is `pages/docs/tutorials/generate-code.md` a valid url?

Author: or this https://deploy-preview-1025--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/generate-code?

Author: got it, I used https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tutorials/create-asyncapi-document

---

> title: Create AsyncAPI Document

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Create AsyncAPI document
```

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to create an AsyncAPI document based on a sample real-world use case. Additionally, you will learn about event-driven architecture, message brokers, pub/sub pattern.

Let's pretend you have a company called Smarty Lighting, and you install smart-city streetlight lighting systems. This smart lighting system is a use case of the Internet of things (IoT).You will create a Smartylighting Streetlights API using Node.js and Mosquitto (MQTT) as the message broker. This API will allow you to manage city lights remotely. 

You want to build a system that can turn streetlights on and off based on their environmental conditions: 

- You will implement an event-driven architecture (EDA) with a message broker in its "center."

- Streetlights will publish information about their environmental lighting to the broker.

- Your application will connect to the broker and receive a stream of events from all the streetlights reporting their conditions.

- Your application decides based on events when to turn the streetlight off.

- Your application is not aware of how many streetlights are publishing events - it just connects to the broker and receives all events.

> # Background Context

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Background context
```

[Message brokers](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#message-broker) enables asynchronous communications between services so that the sending service need not wait for the receiving service’s reply. This allows interdependent services to “talk” with one another directly, even if they were written in different languages or implemented on different platforms. 

Futhermore, the [Pub/sub](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) is appealing for IoT use cases due to two key features: support for flexible coupling between publishers/subscribers and inherent support for point-to-multipoint transmission.  

[MQTT](https://mqtt.org/), is a well-known protocol that is widely used in IoT applications because it was created particularly to address machine-to-machine (M2M) communication.

> # Installation Guide

Reviewer 3: since this document is only about creating a file, I guess we do not need this section

Author: Hi @derberg, do you mean the installation guide section or the paragraph above it?

Reviewer 3: the installation guide
basically to write AsyncAPI document you do not need to install anything, and in your tutorial no software is really needed

Author: Got it now!

> # Installation Guide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Installation guide
```

You'll use Node.js to code the APIs and [Mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/) MQTT service as the message broker. The selected technology is irrelevant here, since everything explained in this tutorial is applicable to any other programming language and message brokers.

Before you proceed to the next stage, you'll need to download a few things:

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (v15 or newer).

2. Install Git on your Operating System:
    - [Install Git on MacOs](https://git-scm.com/download/mac)
    - [Install Git on Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)
    - [Install Git on Linux](https://git-scm.com/download/linux)

> # Create the AsyncAPI Document

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Create AsyncAPI document
```

    publish:
      summary: Inform about environmental lighting conditions for a particular streetlight.
      operationId: onLightMeasured
      message:
        name: LightMeasured
        payload:
          type: object
          properties:
            id:
              type: integer
              minimum: 0
              description: Id of the streetlight.
            lumens:
              type: integer
              minimum: 0
              description: Light intensity measured in lumens.
            sentAt:
              type: string
              format: date-time
              description: Date and time when the message was sent.`}
</CodeBlock>

Let's break it down into pieces:

<CodeBlock>
{`asyncapi: '2.5.0'
info:
  title: Streetlights API
  version: '1.0.0'
  description: |
    The Smartylighting Streetlights API allows you
    to remotely manage the city lights.
  license:
    name: Apache 2.0
    url: 'https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0'`}
</CodeBlock>

- The `asyncapi` field indicates you use the AsyncAPI version 2.5.0.

- The `info` field holds information about the Streetlights API. Here we defined its title, version, description and license.

> Moving on, tet's talk about the `servers` section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moving on, let's talk about the `servers` section.
```

<CodeBlock>
{`servers:
  mosquitto:
    url: mqtt://test.mosquitto.org
    protocol: mqtt`}
</CodeBlock> 

> This is the section we defined the mosquitto message broker. The `url` object defines that of Mosquitto and the `protocol` as MQTT.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this section, you point to the Eclipse Mosquitto message broker. The `url` point to a real instance of the broker [hosted by the Mosquitto community](https://test.mosquitto.org/) and the `protocol` as MQTT. If you do not want to use the test instance, you can spin up your own broker locally with `docker run -it -p 1883:1883 eclipse-mosquitto:1.5`. But remember to change `url` to `mqtt://localhost`
```
I did not look at style, feel free to change, more important was the additional content that we can share

</CodeBlock>

In this example, `light/measured` is the channel name the Streetlight API will `subscribe` to (i.e, to interact with the Streetlight API you `publish` to the broker). The `operationId` property, describes what is the name of function or method that takes care of this functionality in the generated code.

Next is the `payload` property which is used to understand how the event should look like when publishing to that channel:

<CodeBlock>
{`      payload:
        type: object
        properties:
          id:
            type: integer
            minimum: 0
            description: Id of the streetlight.
          lumens:
            type: integer
            minimum: 0
            description: Light intensity measured in lumens.
          sentAt:
            type: string
            format: date-time
            description: Date and time when the message was sent.`}
</CodeBlock>

The `payload` property defines the content of the event using AsyncAPI schemas. It means that your event payload should contain an `id` and a `lumens` property —which are integers bigger than zero—, and a `sentAt` property that should be a string containing a date and time.

> > JSON Schema Draft 07 is 100% compatible with AsyncAPI schemas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> JSON Schema Draft 07 is 100% compatible with AsyncAPI schemas. You can also use other standards to describe payload schema, like, for example [Avro](https://github.com/asyncapi/avro-schema-parser#usage).
```

I do not have a better link :( something for the future to remember is to add a document that explains how to use Avro, so we can link to official docs, not some GH repo

Author: @alequetzalli should I write this note in the `Remember` block?

Author: @derberg do you mean I should use Avro's official docs instead of the GH repo link you inserted?

Reviewer 3: repo is better as there are examples on using Avro with AsyncAPI

Author: Alright!

Reviewer 2: Yes, writing that as a `remember` block is perfect @Annysah 😄
